# 1800takehome

This is a takehome challenge for 1800-Flowers. All the instructions for running the application and test suite can be found below.

## Overview

As specified, the server was developed using Node and Express. All code pertaining to the server can be found in the server file found at the root of the repository. It contains a "database" used to load data.json into memory and provides a method to retrieve it. It also implements a single endpoint that is used by the frontend to retrieve the data.

The frontend was built using React, Redux, and Redux/Saga and can be found in the src folder. The initial React setup was generated by using the default Create React App application. Redux and Saga were both installed after the fact. There are three aspects to the frontend: the store, the components, and the application.

The store is the combination of redux and saga which contains all application logic and state. In the past I have had success keeping specific stores and sagas siloed and provided a simple abstraction to do so found in the sagaFactory file. Because of this, sagas are defined in their respective stores (in this case, just /store/entry).

The components are found in the /src/components directory. Components found in this directory are the base components and should never touch state themselves. The base components are used here to create larger compositions found in App.js. Each base component has respective tests.

The application is put together in App.js which is comprised of 3 main components: the search bar, the entry list, and the popup. This is where the store and compisitions are put together to provide the final layer and build the application.

Next Steps: If work was continued on this repository, the first thing I would do is find a more sustainable way to style the application. Due to time constraints, the css files got messier than I would have liked. The next task would be to add some small abstractions to clean up the test suite and make them easier to read. Currently there are lots of hard coded objects and mock data that could probably be consolodated easily.

## Application Setup Instructions

1. Clone the repository:

```
git clone https://github.com/Tmunayyer/1800takehome.git

or

git clone git@github.com:Tmunayyer/1800takehome.git
```

2. Enter the directory:

```
cd 1800takehome
```

3. Install the dependencies:

```
npm install
```

4. Start the application:

note: This will start both the API server and Frontend bundler with hot reloading.

```
npm start
```

## Running the Test Suite

Starting from "Application Setup Instructions" #3:

4. Install the developer dependencies:

```
npm install --only=dev
```

5. Run the tests:

```
npm run test
```
